
L. Mhalla, J. Hambuckers and M. Lambert, "Extremal connectedness of hedge fund". Journal of Applied econometrics, forthcoming.

The data used in the empirical analyses have been provided by Hedge Funds Research (HFR) and are available at https://www.hfr.com/hfr-database under proper licensing and registration.

Marginal analysis
-----------------

Fund-specific variables have been provided by HFR. It includes the returns (i.e. our target variable, taken as the adjusted performance calculated by HFR), the asset under management (scaled by a factor of 1000), the level of incentive and management fees, the existence of a leverage or not.  
HFR provided us also with the sub-strategy classification between the 12 investment styles considered in the the paper, as well as the country of registration. A detailed description of which funds are excluded from this initial sample (e.g. because of missing data, early inception date, etc.)
is given in Section 1 of the Supplementary material available at https://github.com/lindamhalla/Extremal-connectedness-of-hedge-funds, or by sending an email at jhambuckers[at]uliege[dot]be.

To associate macroeconomic indicators to each fund, we use the country of registration. Macroeconomic variables (i.e. unemployment rate, short- and long-term interest rates, industrial production) have been obtained from the OECD website (see http://stats.oecd.org - where detailed definitions
of the time series are provided). Stock volatility has been calculated as monthly average of 360-day volatility of the national stock market index. Data for these calculations have been obtained from Bloomberg.

Finally, we use the publicly available 7 risk factors of David Hsieh available at https://faculty.fuqua.duke.edu/~dah7/HFData.htm, and the 5 factors available on Kenneth French website at https://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html

Time series of the macro-financial variables used in this paper are made available in the file 'macro_finance.xlsx', Funds returns for which macro-financial data are missing are excluded (this concerns mostly small countries and a limited number of funds, since overall 95% of our observations are tied to funds registerd in the US, the UK, Switzerland, France and Canada, for which no macro-financial data are missing).
Factors data can be found in the files 'fung_hsieh.xlsx' and 'fama_french.xlsx'. 

Remark that all returns have been multiplied by -1 and we focused on the right tail, since our interest is on losses.

The code in 'script_marginal_analysis.m' allows estimating an extreme value regression model, either with a likelihood or a penalized-likelihood approach, as in the paper.


Multivariate analysis
--------------------

After estimating the marginal tail distribution of the hedge funds, the returns are transformed on the unit-Frechet scale using eq. (10), as described at the beginning of Section 3.3.
Then, (bivariate) vectors of transformed returns are built for each pair of investment styles. Finally, only observations with a radial component exceeding a high threshold are kept for inference.
In the file 'multivariate_hedge_funds.txt', we provide these exceedances (in the unit Frechet scale, for anonymity reasons), retained for estimating our tail connectedness measures.

The R script used to estimate these quantities can be found in the file 'script_multivariate_analysis.R'